# Early_Databases
  This is a collection of my early work building databases before starting to learn programming and database analysis formally. Although my father has been a database adminsitrator for essentially my entire life, I never thoguht I would be interested in learning about databases until I found myself in a situation that was perfectly suited for a database application:
  In 2014 I went on a training rotation with my Army unit to Estonia (we were stationed in Germany, so it wasn't as far as you might initially think). Every month, Army units must conduct a 100% inventory of their sensitive items (weapons, radios, classified computers, etc.). I was selected to conduct this monthly inventory while the unit was training in Estonia. Usually this involves getting a hard copy of the sensitive item inventory from the supply sergeant and then walking around the unit's facilities until you have checked off all the items on the list.
   While inefficient, this process works reasonably well in at home station when there isn't a large training event going on. However, The task was made exponentially more difficult during our time in Estonia due to the fact that the unit had equipment in three separate countries (some equipment stayed in Germany, some came to Estonia, and  some had gone to Latvia for a separate training event). To make matters worse, all of the documentation for each piece of equipment's location was in hard-copy format: shipping documents, hand receipts, inventory lists etc. And as a final hurdle, the unit had made many last-minute changes to what equipment would go to which location. 
   So as I worked with the unit's executive officer to track down all of the sensitive equipment, we frequently encountered paperwork that indciated a piece of equipment was in Estonia, but had actually been shipped to Latvia. Or sometimes a piece of equipment that had been scratched out of the shipping document because it was supposed to remain in Germany, actually made the trip to Estonia. Completing the inventory required many phone calls to Latvia and Germany, and checking the same shipping containers in Estonia multiple times. Throughout this process I kept saying to myself, There has to be a better way - some way to keep track of equipments' location even as we make last minute changes.
   In my off time while still in Estonia I began reading about how to make a database to track information such as the current location of a piece of equipment. I discovered that the Army's Microsoft Office license included Access (most people in the Army do not even know what Access is), so I focused on building my database with Access. Although I never fully implemented that first property tracking database, it became the template for future versions as I moved on to other roles, and it proved my theory that there WAS a better way to store, manipulate, and analyze information in the Army. 
   Since that first database in the fall of 2014, I regularly returned to Access databases as my knowledge grew and circumstances changed. I move on to tracking personnel security records and even tinkering with another equipment database in the middle of the Kuwait desert in 2017. 
   I have included as many of those rudimentary Access databases in this repository as I could recover, each with its own ReadMe to explain more in depth my thought process behind creating it. I have made this repository primarily as a reminder of why I got into programming in the first place - to solve real problems in a way that is commonsense and intuitive. I hate being limited by old tools/methods if I know that better ways of doing business exist. As I learn more about programming and databases, the cloud and web applications, I aim to not simply use thes newest techniques but to create new techniques. 
